# Online Bidding System

This project is an online bidding system that uses React for the frontend, Vite for frontend development, Express for backend routes, Node.js for server-side logic, and MongoDB for the database.

You can watch a demo of the project [here](https://youtu.be/h6V2l1EpVsY).

## Project Structure

The project directory is organized as follows:

Online Bidding System/

├── backend/

└── frontend/

### Backend

The `backend` directory contains the server-side code. It uses Express for routing and MongoDB as the database. Node.js is the runtime environment.

### Frontend

The `frontend` directory contains the client-side code. It uses React for building the user interface and Vite as the development server.

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up and run the project locally.

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed on your machine:
- Node.js
- npm (Node Package Manager)
- MongoDB

### Installation and Running

1. **Get the project files**

    Clone the project from GitHub using this link: [https://github.com/perfectionist7/ABB-Online-Bidding-Project](https://github.com/perfectionist7/ABB-Online-Bidding-Project).

    Once cloned, open the "Online Bidding System" folder.


3. **Backend Setup**

    Open a terminal and navigate to the `backend` directory:

    ```sh
    cd backend
    npm install
    npm start
    ```

    This will start the backend server.

4. **Frontend Setup**

    Open another terminal and navigate to the `frontend` directory:

    ```sh
    cd frontend
    npm install
    npm start
    ```

    This will start the frontend development server.

5. **Accessing the Application**

    Once both servers are running, you need to click on the link generated by Vite in the frontend terminal after running `npm start`. This link will open your web browser and load the online bidding system with the frontend connected to the backend.


## Technologies Used

- **Frontend:**
  - React
  - Vite

- **Backend:**
  - Express
  - Node.js

- **Database:**
  - MongoDB

- **Authentication and Password Hashing:**
  - JWT
  - bcrypt

## File Locations

- **Frontend Components:**
  - `frontend/src/components`

- **Authentication Logic:**
  - `backend/routes/auth.js`

## API Endpoints

### User Registration

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/user`

Registers a new user.

### User Login

**Endpoint:** `POST /api/auth`

Authenticates a user and returns a JWT.

## Development Workflow

1. Make changes in the `frontend` or `backend` directories as needed.
2. Use `npm run build` in the `frontend` directory to build the production-ready files.
3. Restart the servers to see the changes.


## Contact

If there are any issues with the project, please contact me at [akhandelwal2003@gmail.com](mailto:akhandelwal2003@gmail.com).

*Happy Bidding!*


